##cp

An entire partition's filesystem can easily be copied to another partition using the cp -a command. (However, this cannot be done for the partition of a filesystem that is running. Use the (K)Ubuntu LiveCD to copy partitions when necessary.) Obviously the destination partition should be as large or larger than the source partition, and while not necessary, probably is best if both partitions are of the same filesystem type (e.g. ext4). Use [GParted](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Trusty#GParted_Partition_Manager) to create or manipulate the destination partition, if necessary. To copy the entire filesystem, for example, from the ext4 partition /dev/sda6 into the ext4 partition at /dev/sda7, mount both partitions:

		sudo mkdir /media/partsda6
		sudo mkdir /media/partsda7
		sudo mount /dev/sda6 -t ext4 /media/partsda6
		sudo mount /dev/sda7 -t ext4 /media/partsda7

Then merely copy the contents from one partition to the other:

		sudo cp -a /media/partsda6/* /media/partsda7

Of course, once the partition's filesystem is copied, a bootmanager (Grub2 or Grub Legacy) will have to be updated/reconfigured to recognize the new partition's OS in order to enable it to boot. Also, the /etc/fstab file of the new partition's filesystem may need to be edited (in regards to the UUIDs of the various partitions), to prevent conflicts. To determine the UUIDs of all current partitions on a hard drive: 

		sudo blkid

Edit fstab so that the UUIDs are correctly reflected there.

To confirm that the file copy has completed, the Linux command [du](http://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/html_node/du-invocation.html) (also see [these tips](http://www.codecoffee.com/tipsforlinux/articles/22.html)) can be used to calculate the disk usage for both the source and destination folders in order to compare the values (to ensure that they are the same). For example, the values should be the same for both partitions after copying has completed: 

		sudo du /media/partsda6
		sudo du /media/partsda7

