#NEED_TRANSLATION
##Internet connection sharing (DHCP server)

In most LANs, an inexpensive router is used to provide DHCP functions (internet connection sharing).

However, DHCP services can also be provided by a single host computer on your LAN if it is directly connected to the Internet. (This is useful, for instance, if you have a 3G or other wireless EVDO connection to your computer which you want to share with the other computers on your LAN). Other client computers on your LAN would then connect to the Internet through your host computer's Internet connection. The host computer now essentially performs the DHCP functions of a router.

All "client" computers on the LAN ought to be connected to a central LAN switch or router. (If using a router, it should have its own DHCP functions disabled -- you shouldn't have 2 DHCP servers on a LAN unless you know how to nest LANs). They should all be set up to obtain DHCP-assigned dynamic IP addresses and use the same LAN subnet settings (which in the example below is LAN IP range 10.0.0.1 - 10.0.0.250 with netmask 255.255.255.0 and gateway 10.0.0.1). The host computer to be used as the gateway/DHCP server is then connected (through its own ethernet port) either to one to the ports of the switch (if used), or to a LAN port of a router (don't use the WAN port). The host computer then connects directly to the Internet (WAN) through a second port (which in the example below will be a wireless (wifi) port (wlan0)).

(Note: This setup is easiest if you connect all computers on the LAN with Ethernet cables to the central switch or router. But also see using a nested wireless LAN router below.)

(Note: If you want your LAN to use the same subnet as your WAN, see network interface bridging.)

    Install the DHCP server and firewall programs: 

sudo apt-get install dhcp3-server firestarter

    Rename the startup command (through a symbolic link) for the DHCP server. This is required or Firestarter will not know where to find it: 

sudo ln -sf /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server /etc/init.d/dhcpd

    Edit the DHCP server configuration file: 

sudo nano -w /etc/default/dhcp3-server

        Change the line 

INTERFACES=""

        to 

INTERFACES="eth0"

    Restart the DHCP server: 

sudo dhcpd restart

    Right click on Network-Manager -> Edit Connections... -> Wired -> Add 

    -> Connection name: Shared internet connection 
    -> IPv4 Settings -> Method: Manual -> Add 
    -> Address: 10.0.0.1 -> Netmask: 255.255.255.0 -> Gateway: 0.0.0.0 
    -> Available to all users: [x] 

    Attach the ethernet cable to (eth0). 

    Network-Manager -> Wired Networks -> Shared internet connection 

    Adjust your firewall to allow the internet connection sharing. Start Firestarter: 

sudo firestarter

        Tell the firewall which port is your direct Internet Connection: 

Firestarter -> Preferences -> Firewall -> Network Settings -> Internet connected network device: (wlan0)

    -> IP address is assigned by DHCP: [x] 

        Tell the firewall which port is for the LAN, and specify the details for the LAN: 

Firestarter -> Preferences -> Firewall -> Network Settings -> Local network connected device: (eth0)

    -> Enable internet connection sharing: [x] 
    -> Enable DHCP for the local network: [x]

        -> DHCP server details -> Create new DHCP configuration -> Lowest IP address to assign: 10.0.0.2 
        -> Highest IP address to assign: 10.0.0.250 -> Name server: <dynamic> 

    Note: Use your own desired LAN settings (internal DHCP-assigned dynamic IP address range), of course. In this example I don't use the full IP range 10.0.0.2 - 10.0.0.255 for dynamic IP addresses because I want to reserve some LAN addresses (10.0.0.251 - 10.0.0.255) to be used as static IP addresses). 

    Notes: 

        If you wish to use this setup all the time, make the "Shared internet connection" profile your default connection profile in Network Manager. 


